## Section 2: Set Up Pulumi Project

Now, let's get your Pulumi project up and running:

1. **Create a New Project Directory:** 

Open your terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to create the project. Run the following commands:

```bash
mkdir pulumi-azure-sql
cd pulumi-azure-sql
```

2. **Initialize Pulumi Project:** 

Initialize a new Pulumi Typescript project using the following command:

```bash
pulumi new typescript
```

This command will guide you through the project setup process. Provide a suitable project name, stack name, and select TypeScript as the language.


3. **Open the Project in Your Code Editor:**

 Once the initialization is complete, open the project in your code editor. You'll see various files and folders that Pulumi has set up for you.

```bash
my-pulumi-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── index.ts
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```


***Tip***: If you're using VS Code, you can open the project in VS Code by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
code .
```

4. **Install Dependencies:**

In order to use the various Azure resources in your Pulumi project, you'll need to install the dependencies listed in the `package.json` file that was generated by **Pulumi**.

Many of you are likely familiar with **npm** and to run `npm install` to install the dependencies. If not, you can read more about npm [here](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm/).

However, there is an alternative to npm called [pnpm](https://pnpm.js.org/en/). 

**Pnpm** is a fast, disk space efficient package manager that uses a single disk space for all versions of a package. 
It also has a few other advantages over npm, which you can read about [here](https://pnpm.js.org/en/motivation).

This presents us with a choice: we can either use npm or pnpm to install the dependencies.

If not obvious, a discussion with your team should happen first, but the reality is that most teams use npm, for now, but should switch to **pnpm** as it is not a heavy lift in most cases. 

**pnpm** is recommended, but the choice is for you and your team to make.

If you choose to use **pnpm**, you can install it by running the following command:

```bash
npm install -g pnpm
```

If you run into permission issues, there are a ***few** alternatives:

First, open a new `Powershell` window as ***Administrator*** and try running the stand-alone script install command:

```bash
iwr https://get.pnpm.io/install.ps1 -useb | iex
```

If that doesn't work, you can install it via Chocolatey:

```bash
choco install pnpm
```

If you are unfamiliar with Chocolatey, you can read more about it [here](https://chocolatey.org/).

Once you have **pnpm** installed, you can install the dependencies by running the following command:

```bash
pnpm install
```
Of course, if you choose to use **npm**, you can install the dependencies by running the following command:

```bash 
npm install
```